# Ch 03 — How You Run Programs

## In my own words

### Modules

A module is a 'package' of variable names, which are collectively known as 'namespace'; and the names within that package are called 'attributes' of the module. Attributes are attached to a specific objects, e.g. a module:

### import and from

_from_ copies modules' attributes, and makes those attributes variables in the recipient code (program), such that you can use the variables straightaway:

```
    from script import title
    print(title)
```

_import_ statement loads the module as a whole, and then you can use the module's name to qualify its attributes:

```
    import script
    print(script.title)

```

import runs a file only once per session, because import is a process - a program run. This means later import does nothing. The REPL must be stopped and restarted for import to be repeated.

_reload_ function is called to force Python to run an already imported file again in the same session without stopping and restarting the REPL. The _reload_ function lives inside the **importlib** standard library, and as such, it must be imported to be runned on an already imported module:

```
    fromimportlib import reload
    reload(script) # reloads the module again in the same session
```

### The exec built-in

## Code that surprised me

_-----------------------------------------------------------_
**Puzzle 1**
_------------------------------------------------------------_

#### PREDICT:

I want to raise the content of x to the power of 8

#### _ACTUAL:_

TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for \*\* or pow(): 'str' and 'int'

#### _VERDICT:_

WRONG

```

    import sys
    import sys

    print("--- puzzle 1 ---")
    # (code here)

    print(sys.platform)
    print(2 ** 100)
    x = 'Hack!'

    print(x ** 8)  # repeat the string x 8 times
```

## Traps

## Quiz misses

1. How can you start a Python interactive interpreter session (REPL)?
   Answer: By navigating to your working directory on Terminal/Command Prompt and typing "python3" or 'py', or just 'python.

2. Where do you type a system command line to run a script file?
   Answer: You type a system command line at the system's console

3. Name four more ways to run the code saved in a script file.
   a. By typing at the system command line (console)
   b. By importing it into a file (running code in code)
   c. By using the exec built-in
   c. By clicking on the file in a IDLE GUI

4. What pitfall is related to clicking file icons on Windows and Linux?
   Answer: ...

5. Why might you need to reload a module?
   Answer: A modules imported into a program runs once at the point of import. To reload the module, we must use the reload() built-in function.

6. How do you run a script from with the IDLE GUI?
   Answer: By clicking on the file icon or typing at the IDLE terminal

7. How are modules, attributes and namespaces related?
   Answer: A module is a package of variables collectively called _namespace_. The variables in this _namespace_ are the attributes of the module. Hence

## Open questions
